+++
title = 'Active Directory: Managing User Account Security and Simulating Lockouts'
date = 2024-12-28T18:59:45-08:00
draft = false
+++

## Managing Account Lockouts and User Security in Active Directory

When a user attempts to log in unsuccessfully multiple times, it can signal a
potential security threat, and the account should be locked to prevent further
attempts. As a domain admin, you can configure account lockout policies on the
domain controller. To do this, right-click on **Domain Group Policy** and select
**Edit**. Then, navigate to the following path:

**Computer Configuration > Policies > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Account Policies > Account Lockout Policy**

You should see a configuration similar to the one below:

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/P0U8iGr.png "Account Lockout Policy")

Note that the policy changes may not take effect immediately. To enforce the
policy, log into the client as an admin and run the following command in
PowerShell as an administrator:

```powershell
gpupdate /force
```

Once the update is complete, log out of the client. Now, let's simulate a
scenario where a user incorrectly enters their password multiple times. After
exceeding the threshold (e.g., 5 incorrect attempts), the system will lock the
account, and you’ll see a message such as **User Account Locked**.

Even if the correct password is entered after the lockout, login will not be
permitted.

To resolve this, go back to the domain controller, locate the locked-out user,
and access their Properties. Under the Account tab, you’ll see an option to
**Unlock account...**. Select it and click Apply.

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/KLloEjv.png "Unlocking User Account")

The user should now be able to log in again successfully.

Alternatively, if the user has forgotten their password, you can reset it by
selecting the Reset Password option, as shown below:

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/Ssl2S0m.png "Unlocking User Account with New Password")

## Disabling and Enabling Accounts

You also have the ability to disable user accounts in Active Directory. If an
account is disabled and the user attempts to log in, they will see a message
such as **Your Account Has Been Disabled**.

To re-enable the account, simply go back into the account's Properties and
enable the account again. The user will be able to log in once more.

## Monitoring Account Activities

Active Directory also provides logging features to track failed login attempts.
You can monitor these events using the Event Viewer. In the example below, we
can see Audit Failure logs indicating the five failed login attempts we
simulated earlier.

![Imgur](https://i.imgur.com/90K2DOX.png "Event Viewer")

## Lessons Learned

This lab was an invaluable opportunity to dive into managing account security
and lockout policies in Active Directory. I explored how to configure account
lockout thresholds, enforce policies across the domain, and simulate failed
login attempts to better understand the lockout process.

Unlocking accounts, resetting passwords, and disabling or enabling user access
gave me practical insight into managing real-world scenarios. Monitoring failed
login attempts through the Event Viewer also highlighted how essential audit
logs are for identifying potential security threats.
